# Exploring Open Source

It was time of September when I being a kid was exploring the Web technologies and some higher level languages while playing around basic programming questions. I got to see many posts on GSOC but by this time, I was pretty much aware about what GSOC is and how it works. I had read few articles on it and some videos about it. So, I came to know that, It has something to do with Open Source. I was luckily, a linux learner back then, So the curtains of open source were unvailed to me. I had been through the history of great computer scienctists and developers who brought the revolutions like **Linus Torvals**, **Richard Stallman**, **Ken Thomsons** and others as well. 

So, I just needed a kick start of contributions. But by this time, I had already used Git, Github for my own personal projects and in some small not so notable hackathons and events. So, I knew pretty well about the terms used in it like Fork, Clone etc. more than my peers because I had founded a failed community with almost 2 Regular members named as **Nactore**. So, At Nactore, I wrote the articles on Git and Github which hardly any of my fellow peers have read. It was tough for me to find an audience as I was not good at marketing my stuff. A bit of Shyness and my own set of principles, disallowed me to continue Nactore Forum (A shitty site hosted on Wix) and It just boom vanished. 

I saw a video on FreeCodeCamp [Guide to Open Source](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yzeVMecydCE&t=46s&ab_channel=freeCodeCamp.org) and learned how you should use github more efficiently and find good issues for you. Then I started doing so. As said earlier in my Introduction, I was learning C++ in more detail so I started contributing the Fixes in DSA repository in Tenet Coding Organization. Soon, We came to October, Which is popularly known as **HacktoberFest** in the open source world. So, I asked out the ACM Club in my college to organize something for it. At the same time, I had frequent contributions in TENET. So, I was given an opportunity to mentor the HacktoberFest 2021 in Tenet. So, I did so, Merged PRs and Rejected PRs and also contributed to other projects by myself. Now, Hackoberfest was over and I got a T-Shirt for the same by getting my more than 4 PRs Merged. 

> To those who are entirely new, Google the term "Pull Request and Issues" 

Now, I was particpating to other Events like GirlScript Winter Of Contributing (GWOC), Winter Of Code 2.0 (By GDSC IIIT Kalyani). GWOC is all about documentation. I wrote some technical articles and got my PRs merged. This was the time, I was working on some large project (by qunatity) where you might face merge conflicts, Issues closing and reopening, commit squashes etc. I anyway learned many things and standards of open source into this event. By this time, I started exploring the GSOC organizations and Previous Project " It all Comes by Exploration ".  

> If you never visited the GSOC site and explored Archives, Go do that. 

In WoC 2.0 by Kalyani I saw LLVM out there which was based on compilers. Other orgs were not catching my interest as I was fed up with web development everywhere and wanted to try something more beautiful. I got a proposal for the same and sent it to mentor out there. It got accepted and then I told my mentor, I know nothing about compilers, What will I do ? He suggested to do some online study work. I got enrolled in a Course by Stanford in Coursera and learned about compilers. Now, I was being told to build the LLVM. But I had a boring Laptop of 4 GB RAM which was not sufficient. So, I skipped the program by informing mentor and kept things on hold. Meanwhile, I contiued with my course and Learnt more around it. Fast forward to Late January 2022. I got myself a new laptop with 16 GB. and I build the software on my system by myself. Let's not get more in detail of my WoC 2.0 Journey which was really a breakthrough in my open source exploration. All thanks to **Nimish Mishra** Who helped me with the contribution process. If you want to know in detail about my LLVM journey Read this article of mine. [LLVM Journey](https://medium.com/@harshiljani2002/woc-2-0-llvm-compiler-infrastructure-experience-dea8324ed734)

I turned out to be a top contributor in both GWOC (Open Source Domain) and GDSC's WoC 2.0. By now, I was comfortable with the open source projects. Now, It was month of February and peak time for all GSOC aspiring candidates. Let's read about GSOC into next section. 

